Now how do we dive right in? I would suggest let's start by making sure that this attack button does
something, that we actually shrink these health bars.
Now as I mentioned, we need to configure how much health is available
and later we'll ask the user of this web page for a starting value,
for now we will hardcode it.
So here in app.js, I will start by adding a constant which I'll name chosenMaxLife, again later the
user will be able to choose that, hence that variable name,
right now I will hardcode it and I will set it to 100 health points.
Now in addition, I'll also set an attack value here,
now this also is a constant because this will not change throughout the program lifecycle. By the way, the
health of course will change so this actually should be a variable with let, my mistake, so this should
be a variable.
The constant here however will not change and the order by the way does not matter, you could have the variable
first, whatever you want but I like to have my constants that never change first and the constant here
which won't change is the attack value which I'll set to 10
and of course here, you can experiment with different values. This is basically how hard we hit the monster,
though I will say in the vendor.js file, we got a little randomization logic built in so that the attack
value I set up here will actually be treated as a maximum value and we will generate a random value
between 0 and that value to have a little bit of randomness in the game. Now
also one little thing which I want to change here, attack value is a constant which will never change
throughout the entire program and
therefore it's a constant
as I just said, we can also leave it like this but for such a global game value which we really hardcode
in there, so which we don't derive from let's say some user input which thereafter never changes but
which we as a developer set up as a global value which you just hardcode into your code,
it's also quite common to use all uppercase characters there and separate words with an underscore, to
make it really clear that this is a global value which you just hardcoded into the code as
we did it here.
It's not required, technically it doesn't make any difference,
it's just a convention you see in some programs and therefore one which I want to establish here,
again not a must use but an option.
So that's the attack value, the maximum attack value we can get as a player,
that's the max life for both the player and the monster
and the first thing we can do therefore is we can call a function which is exposed by vendor.js, the adjust
health bars function which takes the maximum life and which then just sets the maximum life in our user
interface,
so in the HTML code in the end for these progress bars.
So here we can call adjust health bars and simply forward the chosenMaxLife so that this gets
updated on the screen whenever we load this game.
Of course we see no difference here,
the bars were full before that but if you inspect them actually with right click inspect here in Chrome,
you see the HTML code as it's configured for this running web page and there, you see the max value
is set to 100, the current value is also set to 100
and if you would change the chosenMaxLife here to 50 and reload, you would see that these values also
change to 50. So that's the impact we're having here, just so that you see how this all is connected.
Okay,
so with that we get the chosenMaxLife set up, we're setting this in our web page
so to say, now we want to connect this attack button here to a function which we execute which then
lowers this health.
So for that in the vendor.js file, we expose this attack button, that's a constant which we can use. By
the way, these constants are not written in all caps because these don't hold hardcoded string or number
values but instead references to parts of our HTML code,
so parts of our web page and there, this is not such a global hardcoded value but it's a bit more dynamic even
though it of course also won't change whilst the app is running. So we can refer to the attack button
constant here which is basically a reference to this button and we can use this here to then also add
an event listener here and this event listener should listen to the click event and then fire a function
which I'll add here which I'll name
attack handler and now the name of the function is totally up to you. Previously in the course, I used
the different naming scheme,
now from now on, I will use a different one where the functions which I assign to event handlers will
always be named some description of what the function is there for and then handler at the end. This is
absolutely not a must do, it's also not the only convention you will find out there, some people also use
a convention where these event handler functions start with on and then for example onClick or onAttack
or you just name it
attack monster if you want to go with that, just to make clear which functions are attached to an event
listener and which functions aren't, I will go with that attack handler or with that handler convention
here
but again that is optional.
So attack handler is the function I'll point it here on my event listener
and in this function, I now want to launch an attack towards that monster.
Now to launch that attack, we can have a look at the vendor.js file
and there we actually have that deal monster damage function.
What this does is it calculates a random amount of damage based on the damage we feed in as a parameter,
then it adjusts the monster health bar, so the health bar we see on the page here and it returns the
damage it calculated so that we can also use it in the app.js file.
So I want to call deal monster damage here and I want to pass in my attack value here and this will
return that damage that was dealt which I'll store in a damage constant, a constant because this value
will not change for this function execution
so I will store it in this local constant which is available inside of this function thereafter
and now we can use that stored damage to adjust our monster health. Now for that
up here, I'll add a new variable, monster health or current monster health, which I'll set equal to
chosenMaxLife
which of course renders this variable a bit redundant,
it will become more important later once we let the user set this, for now it's just like a dummy data
container, we could of course also initialize current monster health to 100 here but again, since later
this variable will be populated by the user,
I'll use that extra variable and the currentPlayerHealth can also be initialized to the
chosenMaxLife.
Now that current monster health should be reduced by the damages which was dealt down there
and for this, of course we can use the minus equal operator and set this to damage,
this means that current monster Health is set equal to current monster health minus damage.
Now the UI is updated by the deal monster damage function as I explained
and with that, we should be able to attack the monster with a normal attack.
If I save this and I reload and I click attack, you'll see the monster health bar shrinks by different amounts
because it's random but it shrinks.
Of course, we have no win condition though, so it would make sense to add this and therefore of course
we'll need an if statement.